Blazor Hybrid (MAUI) page-component navigation (#28216)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/hybrid/routing.md

```

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="maui"

## Navigation among pages and Razor components

> This section explains how to navigate among .NET MAUI content pages and Razor components.

Reviewer: I was about to comment that this would work for navigating between all .NET MAUI page types and Razor components. But the modification of the `App` class wouldn't be necessary for other page types. So you can ignore this comment :)

> The .NET MAUI Blazor hybrid project template isn't a [Shell-based app](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/shell/), so the [URI-based navigation for Shell-based apps](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/shell/navigation) isn't the simplest approach to implement in a project based on the project template. The examples in this section use a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.NavigationPage> to perform modeless or modal navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .NET MAUI Blazor hybrid project template isn't a [Shell-based app](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/shell/), so the [URI-based navigation for Shell-based apps](/dotnet/maui/fundamentals/shell/navigation) isn't suitable for implementing in a project based on the project template. The examples in this section use a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.NavigationPage> to perform modeless or modal navigation.
```

In the following example:

* The namespace of the app is `MauiBlazor`, which matches the suggested project name of the <xref:blazor/hybrid/tutorials/maui> tutorial.

> * A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage> is placed in a new folder added to the app named `Views`.

Reviewer: A folder named Views is fine, as is Pages.

```diff
- MainPage = new MainPage();
+ MainPage = new NavigationPage(new MainPage());
```

`Views/NavigationExample.xaml`:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             xmlns:local="clr-namespace:MauiBlazor"
             x:Class="MauiBlazor.Views.NavigationExample"
             Title="Navigation Example"
             BackgroundColor="{DynamicResource PageBackgroundColor}">
    <StackLayout>
        <Label Text="Navigation Example"
               VerticalOptions="Center"
               HorizontalOptions="Center"
               FontSize="24" />
        <Button x:Name="CloseButton" 
                Text="Close" />
    </StackLayout>
</ContentPage>
```

In the `NavigationExample` code file, an event handler for the close button calls <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.INavigation.PopAsync%2A> to pop the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage> off of the navigation stack.

`Views/NavigationExample.xaml.cs`:

```csharp
namespace MauiBlazor.Views;

public partial class NavigationExample : ContentPage
{
    public NavigationExample()
    {
        InitializeComponent();

>         CloseButton.Clicked += CloseButton_Clicked;

Reviewer: You know you can attach the event handler from XAML, right?
